Memory Leak Observations

In Part 3A, the memory leak happens because the program uses malloc() to get memory but does not use free() after it is done with it. The line that causes the problem is `int *temp_item = malloc(1000 * sizeof(int));`. This happens inside the loop, so every time the loop goes around, more memory is being used. Since the memory is never freed, the program keeps losing memory. The loop runs 1000 times, and it leaks about 3906 KB of memory. If the loop kept running over and over for a long time, it would keep using more memory. Eventually, this could make the program use too much memory and could cause the computer or program to slow down. It could also run out of memory. In Part 3B, the memory leak is fixed by adding `free(temp_item);`. This tells the program that it is done using that memory. The memory can then be used again later. The fixed version still allocates the same amount of memory, but it gives the memory back after each loop. This is why free() is important when using malloc() in C. If I forget to free memory, it can cause a memory leak even if the program still seems to be working.

Python vs. C Memory Management

C and Python handle memory pretty differently. In C, the programmer has to do more of the work. In this assignment, I used malloc() to create memory for the inventory and realloc() to make the inventory bigger. I also had to use free() when I was done with the memory. If I forget to use free(), the memory can stay used even though I don't need it anymore. I also have to be careful with pointers because I could accidentally use memory after it has already been freed. Python is easier in this way because it handles a lot of the memory work for you. For example, if I make an inventory with `inventory = []` and then use `inventory.append()`, I don't have to figure out how much memory to give it. Python takes care of that in the background. Python also has garbage collection. The garbage collector helps get rid of objects that are not being used anymore. This means Python programmers usually don't have to think about calling something like free() every time they are done with something. C gives the programmer more control over memory, but it also means there are more ways to make mistakes. Python does more of the work automatically, which can make it easier to program, especially for someone who is still learning about memory.

Garbage Collection Trade-offs

Garbage collection is helpful because it means the programmer does not have to manually clean up everything. However, it still takes computer resources to do this. The computer has to use some CPU time to find memory that is not being used anymore and clean it up. It can also use some extra memory while doing this. This can sometimes affect how fast a program runs. This is one reason someone working with systems might choose C instead. With C, the programmer can decide exactly when memory is created and when it is freed. This gives more control, but it also means the programmer has to be careful. Forgetting to free memory can cause a memory leak, and using memory incorrectly can cause other problems. So, garbage collection is easier, but manual memory management gives more control.
